Sales Data Visualization and Predictive Modeling Project
This project focuses on analyzing, visualizing, and predicting sales performance using Python. I explored real sales and expense data to uncover trends, visualize patterns, and build a predictive model that estimates future sales.

The goal was to turn raw business data into meaningful insights that could support smarter decision-making.

Project Overview
I worked with multiple datasets — including Amazon sales, warehouse metrics, and expense reports — to create a unified analysis pipeline. After cleaning and merging the data, I visualized sales performance across time and categories, and finally developed a machine learning model to forecast upcoming sales trends.

Technologies & Libraries Used

1.Python — Main programming language

2.Pandas — Data manipulation and preprocessing

3.NumPy — Numerical computations

4.Matplotlib — Core visualizations

5.Seaborn — Statistical and aesthetic data visualization

6.Scikit-learn — Predictive modeling and machine learning

7.Warnings — Used for managing runtime warnings during data processing.

Data Sources
I processed the following CSV files in this project:

1.Amazon Sale Report – Online sales data from Amazon

2.Cloud Warehouse Comparison Chart – Warehouse performance metrics

3.Expense IIGF – Operational expense tracking

4.International Sale Report – Country-wise sales data

5.May-2022 – Monthly sales snapshot

6.P&L March 2021 – Profit and loss report

7.Sale Report – General sales records

Data Cleaning Process
In this project, I performed several data cleaning tasks:

*Removed unnecessary and duplicate columns (Unnamed columns)

*Handled missing values where appropriate

*Standardized date columns into proper datetime format for time-series analysis

*Aggregated sales by date and product category

Visualizations
I created the following visualizations to represent the data:

1.Sales Trend Over Time — Line chart showing how total sales evolve across months

2.Sales by Category — Horizontal bar chart comparing revenue by category

Sales Predictive Model
I trained a machine learning model (using Scikit-learn) on historical sales data to:

*Capture seasonal and temporal patterns

*Predict future sales volume

*Provide a data-driven outlook for planning and budgeting

How to Use
To run the project:

Ensure you have Python installed along with the required libraries. You can install them using:

*pip install pandas numpy matplotlib seaborn scikit-learn

*Place the CSV files in an archive folder within the same directory as this script.

Execute the script in your Python environment. The visualizations and predictive model outputs will be displayed sequentially.

Conclusion
This project enabled me to analyze, visualize, and forecast sales performance, providing valuable insights for data-driven decision-making. I look forward to exploring further insights and adapting the project.
